Celestia Install instructions for UNIX
--------------------------------------

You need to have the following components installed before Celestia
will build: OpenGL (tested with Mesa 3.4), glu, libjpeg, and libpng.
Should you have a package based installation (most Linux distributions these
days are), you will also need to install the devel packages for your OpenGL,
glu and glibc packages.

OK, assuming you've collected all the necessary libraries, here's
what you need to do to build and run Celestia:

	configure
	make
	make install

Three interfaces are available for Celestia:
- glut: minimal interface, barebone Celestia core with no toolbar or menu...
- gtk1/gnome1: minimal GTK1 interface, adds a menu, a configuration dialog
               some other utilities. This interface is still supported but
	       is not developped any further.
- KDE3: brings contextual menus, toolbars, KDE integration, internationalization,
        bookmarks...

By default the KDE interface will be built. It requires the various kde devel
packages.

To build the GTK interface (requires gtkglarea and gtkglarea devel):
	configure --with-gtk

To build the GLUT interface (requires glut and glut devel):
	configure --without-kde --without-gtk

The configure output tells you which interface has been selected, you should
check it before running make.

For KDE you will get:
	checking whether to enable GLUT... no
	checking interface to build... KDE
	checking whether to disable GTK.... yes

For GTK:
	checking whether to enable GLUT... no
	checking interface to build... GTK
	checking whether to disable GTK.... no

And for GLUT:
	checking whether to enable GLUT... yes
	checking interface to build... GLUT
	checking whether to disable GTK.... yes

Starting with version 1.3.1, Lua is the new scripting engine for Celestia, 
the old homegrown scripting engine is still available. By default Lua support
will NOT be compiled in, to enable it you need to download the Lua library from:
	http://www.lua.org/
Version 5.0 or newer is required.

Once Lua has been installed on your system, you need to run:
	configure --with-lua=/path/to/lua

To check wether your Celestia has been compiled with Lua support, go to File
-> Open. If you have '*.cel *.celx' in the filter box, then Lua is available
otherwise the filter will contain only '*.cel'.

The GtkGLArea widget that is required in order to build Celestia with Gtk+ may
be downloaded from http://www.student.oulu.fi/~jlof/gtkglarea/ . Note that
depending in your Installation Distributions you may also need other packages
containing various information needed by the build process, for instance, to
build under SUSE Linux, you will also need to have the gtk-devel package
installed, and having GNOME's devel packages present also is probably not
a bad idea (in fact, currently absolutely necessary for the GTK version).

Celestia will be installed into /usr/local by default, with data files landing
in /usr/local/share/Celestia , but you may specify a new location with the
--prefix option to configure:

	configure --prefix=/home/my_directory

All the other usual configure parameters apply; you may see which options
are available using 'configure --help'

If while running configure you see an error reporting that gl.h,
is missing, you either don't have OpenGL installed on your system,
or you don't have the corresponding devel package installed.  If for
instance you have Mesa installed, you will also have to install the
mesa-devel package (or something named similarly).  Missing glu.h or glut.h
means that you don't have GLU, GLUT, or their devel pacakges installed.


Chris Laurel                &      Deon Ramsey
claurel@.shatters.net              dramsey@users.sourceforge.net

Updated 2003-06-10 by
Christophe Teyssier
chris@teyssier.org

